---
layout: post
title: New Blog 2021
---

I've not only stopped writing things on the blog, I also stopped updating its various workings, styles, etc. Time to change the latter, and see if it leads to the former. Knowing life, it probably won't.

### Why not WordPress?

WordPress has served me well since 2006. 15 years? Not bad -- there are few things with this longevity in my computers. But I've grown afraid of it:
- The interface keeps changing. I'm old and don't like it when interfaces improve.
- Everything is stored in MySQL. Fine, I can take a `mysqldump` every now and then? But what can I do with it really? And I have to actually keep running a MySQL server! If WordPress were able to use SQLite, I might've stuck with it.
- PHP, WordPress... guess how often I updated them? Yes -- how didn't everything get hacked yet?

### Why Jekyll?

I like versioning things with git. I like simplicity. I like plain text files I can just edit. Digital restraint or hipsterism?

I've used Middleman in the past, and now can't update my [tsumego website](https://tsumego.tasuki.org/). Apparently my Ruby is too new for my dependencies, so I update the dependencies, and then run into [a Thor issue](https://github.com/erikhuda/thor/issues/721), which also is tracked on [Debian](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=955405) and [Ubuntu](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ruby-thor/+bug/1885424), and I really don't care about any of this and just want things to work. Jekyll seems to continue working. I hope it continues working for the next 10 years at least. And if it breaks, I've got everything in relatively plain html/markdown files and should be able to take it from there.

### Comments

Your wonderful comments were often much more interesting than my posts, and I worked hard to preserve them. Unfortunately, I'm not sure how to make commenting possible without suck. Some options:

1. Disqus, Facebook, etc: yes it's easy, but where is the simplicity? I wanted _more_ control and predictability and safe feelings, using a centralized third party to handle your precious comments would be downright irresponsible.
2. The [Jekyll resources](https://jekyllrb.com/resources/) page lists some options that allow commenting using GitHub issues: I quite like that a  bit, but the end result looks dodgy -- each commenter has to agree to give some random app the write access to their soul.
3. The poor-man solution. As this is mirrored on GitHub anyway, just go and create a PR to add a comment? It's not exactly user friendly, but hey, at least there's a barrier to entry. I've [written down instructions how to add comments](/comment/). If GitHub ever goes away, the comments will be part of the repo and I can take them elsewhere. That, plus no one comments here anymore anyway.
